=== Definitions
Demand Signals - 
Demand Shaping - 

Hierarchical forecasting with reconciliation 
 - Model the top level, model the middle level, moddle the bottom level.
 - Reconcile levels - for example, increase/decrease the middle level based on the highest level
 - Typically, starting at the middle level and reconciling with the lower and higher levels is most effective

Lots of need for *Demand Forecasting*

Hierarchical forecasts require reconciliation.  You can do bottom-up or top-down forecasts, but you can also do "middle-out"

Demand is more volatile now.  Partly because of social networks... if people do or don't like a product it becomes clear very quickly.

=== History
Regression developed 1886 by Francis Galton.  
ARIMA models have only been around in the 60s, Box and Jenkins standardized methodology in the 70s.
Three Hurdles
- Processing Power
- Data collection
- Data storage

=== Bottom Line Impact
Huge companies are doing forecasting with excel spreadsheets using a moving average
MAPE at business level was 30%, at lower levels was up to 100%
Goal is to meet demand with lower inventory
80% of forecasters today still use excel. 
Corporate culture today is to create a seasonal baseline and have leadership give their judgement.
Most of the time, people do relatively little to improve forecasts.
Need to show that as forecasts improve, bottom line and customer satisfaction improve

=== How does SAS sell?
Have client give them a sample and hold some back
Demonstrate that the forecast beats expectations on the hold back sample


80% of forecasts can be done automatically
10% requires extra effort.  This is where the analyst can add value.
10% cannot be forecast accurately

Forecast Server suppports a rich set of models
- Time Series
- Intermittent Demand
- ARIMA (seasonal and nonseasonal)
- MLR, ARIMAX, UCM
- Weighted combined forecasting

Forecast Server does not require code, but it allows you to see the code and move it to Base SAS if you like.

Forecast server will fail if you have an intervention variable in your holdout sample.  It doesn't give you a good error message.

ARIMA models tend to maintain accuracy further out than exponential smoothing models

If you run simulations with assumed promotions, you have to make sure that those were the ones actually done.
